>> Richard Feldman: All right,
let's get to our first exercise.
So essentially, what we're gonna be doing
for part 1 is we're gonna be going from
the thing on the left to
the thing on the right.
So we're gonna start off with some TODOs,
we're gonna have a little really,
really basic main.elm with
a little bit of code in it.
And what we're going to do is we're gonna
build it out and do a little bit of
rendering, such that we end up with
something that looks much nicer.
That's going to be sort
of the starting point for
our conduit application that
we're gonna be building.
So there are some instructions
in part1/README.md.
I'm gonna hop on over there.
Worth noting that you should
have this server running
from the introduction thing.
We're not actually gonna use the server
for the first couple exercises, because
I wanna demonstrate just like, if you were
really starting from scratch, and all you
wanted to do was just build some plain
index.html main.elm, here's how you do it.
But partway through the workshop, we
are gonna switch to using this server and
this more fully fledged code base,
so you wanna make sure that
you're leaving this running in
a separate tab for the entire workshop.
Okay, so we're in this intro directory,
so you should have cloned the workshop by
now, and then there are two
directories inside a route directory,
one's called intro, one's called advance.
As you may have guessed,
there are two workshops I'm doing here,
one is the intro workshop, and
the other is advance workshop.
Definitely wanna use the intro workshop
for this, because the advance one would be
way too hard, [LAUGH], for
what you know about Elm so far.
Inside this intro folder,
we can see we have a readme, and then,
a bunch of other folders.
So part one through part nine, those
correspond to the different lessons we’re
going to do, then server holds onto all
the back end stuff that we’re gonna be
using, and
when we get a little bit further on.
So the readme explains sort
of how to get setup, and
then each of these parts has
its own readme inside of it.
So we're gonna cd into part1, and
when we do these other exercises,
we're gonna up a directory and go back
into part2, go up, go into part3, etc.
Inside this directory,
let me clear real quick,
we can see a couple of different things.
You may not have an Elm stuff directory.
This is a temp directory that just
stores stuff that the compiler uses.
So it's always safe to blow that away.
So don't worry about it,
it goes in git ignore.
Also, there's that elm.js file.
You might not see that because you
haven't actually run Elm make yet.
Again, that's also safe to remove and
that's also git ignored,
because it's fundamentally something
that's generated by the compiler.
So both of those can
always be gotten rid of.
So this is probably what you're seeing,
main.elm,
readme.md, elm.json, and index.html.
We'll get into elm.json a little bit
later, that has your dependencies for
your application.
Index.html is just the basic plain HTML
page that is gonna import the .js file
that we're gonna compile.
And then finally, we have main.elm, which
is the things we're gonna be working on.
So let's go ahead and
open this up in our editors.
I'm gonna use Adam for this workshop,
but there are a whole bunch of
editors you can use for Elm.
They all have plug-ins and
stuff like that.
But Adam's the one I'm going
to happen to choose here.
So this is our Main.elm file.
Let's not quite dive into this just yet.
Let's first start by looking at the readme
because each of these parts has a slightly
different readme that describes
what we're going to do.
Okay, so first of all we have
some build instructions.
So if we want to see the part1 directory
and run elm make Main.elm --output elm.js.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So, as previously noted on the slide,
dependencies loaded from local cache,
dependencies ready,
success, compiled 1 module.
So whenever we wanna rebuild our file,
we're just gonna keep doing that,
just keep rewriting that command, and
it's just gonna keep rebuilding it.
By the way,
you notice the output message is a little
bit different on these subsequent runs.
The first one, when it says,
dependencies loaded from local cache,
dependencies ready.
What that's talking about is
regenerating the elm-stuff directory.
So that's something that it uses for
caching.
On an application this small,
it's trivial, there's not much to cache.
But on a bigger application, that
elm-stuff directory will save you a good
bit of time as you do
incremental recompiles.
Oops, go back to my editor.
Okay, [COUGH] and then we're gonna
open index.html in the browser.
So on MacOS,
you can just type open but otherwise,
you may wanna open it like a directory,
something like that.
In the future, we'll be going to local
host for the server but for now,
we're just gonna do it like this.
So as you can see,
we have a beautiful page here,
it says TODO replace this
div with the banner and
then in parentheses in the future,
we'll display a feed of articles here.
Okay, so let's actually make this happen.
So the way we're gonna do this is
open Main.elm in your editor and
resolve the TODOs there.
After you complete each one,
re-run elm make Main.elm on the terminal
to recompile the elm.js file.
Then refresh the browser
to see the results.
There's ways to get live reloading and
stuff like that,
but, again, for this workshop,
we're just gonna keep it really simple.
So you can just understand
the underlying tools that all
these other nicer tools
are building on top of.
Okay, Main.elm, so inside this,
we can see a bunch of different
concepts that we've seen before.
So we've got these divs here with classes,
we've got some text.
We're assigning some things to names,
so we've got a thing called feed,
we've got a thing called main.
Ultimately, all you need to do for
this exercise is to follow these TODOs.
So whenever you see this little emoji and
a TODO,
it's gonna describe what you
need to do in that case.
As far as this stuff up top, we didn't
really talk about modules and imports.
No need to worry about those for
the purpose of this exercise.
All you need to do is focus on
the TODOs and resolving them.